PML(S_{0,5}) Rendering Demonstration

From the PML Visualization Project
by David Dumas and François Guéritaud

Created for the 2016 ICERM Workshop "Illustrating Mathematics".



1. Requirements

For all steps
  Some kind of unix-like environment (e.g. typical linux distribution)
  Python 2.7 - http://python.org/
  Numpy - http://numpy.scipy.org/

For rendering

  POV-Ray 3.6+ - http://www.povray.org/


2. QUICK START

Run the script "make-pml-image.sh".  View the output image "pmls05.png".


3. The steps

The script "make-pml-image.sh" performs the following steps to create
the image:

3a. Cocycles

The file "pent2.csv" contains generators of a Fuchsian group
corresponding to a hyperbolic structure on the five-punctured sphere
and a collection of shearing cocycles that form a basis of the tangent
space to Teichmuller space at this point.  This is the COCYCLE FILE.

The Mathematica notebook "pentagon-calculations.nb" generates the
cocycle file; however, the cocycle file is included with the demo
source code so that mathematica is not required.

3b. Words

The script "scc.py" generates a list of simple closed curves on the
five-punctured sphere by exploring a Cayley graph of the braid group
to a certain depth.  The result is a list of elements of the free
group F_4, comprising a WORD FILE.

In this demo, the word file is "words.txt".

3c. Covectors

The script "lenderiv.py" reads a cocycle file and word file and
computes the derivative of the logarithm of hyperbolic length for each
of the simple closed curves in the direction of each shearing
cocycle.  These are written to a COVECTOR FILE.

In this demo, the covector file is "covectors.txt".

3d. Sphere primitives (stereographic projection)

The script "make-spheres-inc.py" convert the data in the covector file
to a set of POV-Ray sphere primitives by rotating and
stereographically projecting the covectors and then generating POV-Ray
sphere primtives with appropriate radii.  The result is the SPHERE
FILE, which in this demo is called "spheres.inc".

3e. Rendering

Finally, POV-Ray is called to render the scene described in
"scene.pov".  This scene files imports the sphere file after setting
parameters such as camera position and lighting.


4. Comments, questions, bug reports

Send to: david@dumas.io